# <center>Project Selection</center>

## <center> Help Desk Ticket Application</center>

### <div style="text-align: right"> Steven Fairchild </div>
### <div style="text-align: right"> July 4th, 2020 </div>

My name is Steven Fairchild and I have previous experience as a Linux/VMware systems administrator, Networking administrator, and training in Cyber Security. My goals with this project are to utilize every technology that I am learning about in the MSSA course, and generate a useful tool that hiring managers will see value in. This will accomplish my objectives set forth in project step 1. In doing so it will help me prove my skills as a developer that can incorporate many different technologies to work together. 

I've chosen to create a **help desk ticket system as my project.** This type of program will require authentication, authorization, and multiple user roles. These roles being the end users submitting help desk tickets, the IT employees viewing and responding to them, and an administrator role for the site. The application will require a web user interface, authentication, authorization, automation (reminders for waiting tickets, ticket creation confirmations), a database to store and retrieve information. The database will support creating tickets, updating tickets, reading, and deleting tickets by roles with the proper permissions. This type of system is usable in any industry, from IT help desk issues, to maintenance requests for renters, the possibilities are endless and in wide use today.

### <center> Data Phase</center>

The data contained within my help desk ticket system will include:

* User information
	* Name
	* Phone number
	* email address (for contact and notifications)
	* preferred contact method
	* Priority
* Problem information
	* Location of problem, address and aproximate location
	* Category of problem
	* Detailed description of problem
	* optional image upload
	* Previous ticket if reoccuring problem
	
* An option to upload an image of the problem
* A location to reference a previous ticket, to allow for it to be associated with a reoccuring issues and view that information.
* Information only viewable by accounts with the appropraite role
	* An example is comments made by employees that an end user doesn't really need to know the details of.
* Groups/Ques by the end user.
	* If multiple departments used the same service for ticket tracking, you'd need them to be seperate from each other.
* Ticket statuses: Open, Awaiting review, in progress, closed, etc.
* The software will need to be hosted on a server, most likely this will be accomplished on a Microsoft Azure virtual machine later on.

### <center> Programming Phase</center>

I will be using auth0 with ASP.NET to facilitate authentication.
For the different user views I will program three different roles into the database. ASP.NET will show different querry results from the database depending on which user role is logged in.

### <center> User Interface </center>

I will be using a boot strap web template named SB Admin 2. The user interface will have different menus depending on what permissions the user logged in has. A manager will have permissions to view all tickets within their scope, ticket responders will have access to new tickets in the ques, tickets they have taken ownership of, and any that involve group efforts. The end user will only be able to see the status of their own tickets, and any notes/comments that have been added to it, as well as past closed tickets. There will be a viewable record of all past tickets, open tickets, and anything in between for manager/administrator roles. I plan on including applicable graphs, pie charts, etc. where I can.

User interface views

* End User View
	* Login page
	* Open tickets tab
	* Past tickets tab
	* New ticket creation tab (Collects and stores all information mentioned in Data Phase)
	
* Administrator
	* All queues(tickets will go into queues based on category)
	* Tickets awaiting engagement
	* Filter options to view tickets by status, age, activity
	* Statistics
	* Feedback after resolution for each employees

* Employee (Ticket resolver)
	* Tickets awaiting engagement based on their scope/category and priority
	* 

### <center> Action Plan </center>

I will need to make a schedule to help me follow a set workflow path. This schedule will outline project deadlines, and blocks set forth for when to work on what part of the project. I plan on ensuring all the software will work together, namely Auth0 as it is a third-party software being incorporated. I plan on working on each requirement individually to ensure each task is completed and I am not skipping around too much leaving things unfinished. I will likely do the testing on a virtual machine locally, then upon completion (or when I have access to Azure) deploy to an Azure virtual machine for production.

**Database Development**
The first three weeks will be spent designing the database. This includes the requirements & conceptual design, logical & physical design, and implementation.

**Software Development**
(1) requirements gatherig, (2) requirements analysis, (3)
application design, (4) implementation, and (5) testing. Five weeks will be spent on these steps.

** Application Development**
The last three weeks I will spend activly developing my project.
